Download Link: https://assignmentchef.com/product/solved-cse330-homework-3-implementing-semaphores
<br>
Using the threads, you have implemented, implement semaphores. Since the threads are non-preemptive, you do not need to ensure atomicity of the semaphores (they are already atomic).

Implement the following: (you can either create file called sem.h or write it in your main c file)

<ol>

 <li><strong>Semaphore data structure: </strong>A value field and a queue of TCBs.</li>

 <li><strong>InitSem(semaphore, value): </strong>Initializes the value field with the specified value.</li>

 <li><strong>P(semaphore): </strong>The P routine decrements the semaphore, and if the value is 0 or less than zero then blocks the process in the queue associated with the semaphore.</li>

 <li><strong>V(semaphore): </strong>The V routine increments the semaphore, and if the value is 0 or negative, then takes a PCB out of the semaphore queue and puts it into the run queue. Note: <strong>The V routine also “<em><u>yields</u></em>” to the next runnable process.</strong> //this is important.</li>

 <li>Implement a solution to the Producer Consumer Problem with the following settings: <em><u>There are P producers all in while loops that loop N times, each producing 1 item in one loop</u>. </em></li>

</ol>

<em><u>There are C consumers all in while loops that loop N times each consuming 1 item in one loop</u></em><em>. </em>

<em><u>Every consumer or producer yields at the end of a loop to the next process</u></em><em>.</em>




<em><u>Consider that the buffer size is B items.</u></em>

<em><u>You will be given a Queue of numbers, where positive numbers denote the producer ID and negative numbers denote consumer ID</u></em>

<em><u>Arrange your ready queue accordingly</u></em>

<em><u>Start with the first thread in the queue and run it.</u></em>

<em><u>At the end of each loop before yield a consumer should print the following: if consumer X is consuming an item then print</u></em>

<em><u>printf”
 Consumer %d is consuming item generated by Producer %d”,X,Y) else print</u></em>

<em><u>printf(“
 Consumer %d is waiting
”,X)</u></em>

<em><u>At the end of each loop before yield the producer should print the following:</u></em>

<em><u>if producer X is producing an item then print</u></em>

<em><u>printf(“Producer %d is producing item number %d”, X,Y)</u></em>

<em><u>else print</u></em>

<em><u>printf(“
 Producer %d is waiting 
”, X)</u></em>

<em><u> </u></em>

<strong>How will you implement P(S) and V(S)?</strong>

<strong> </strong>

P(S) requires two operations: a) block when S&lt;= 0 and b) let go when S &gt; 0;




The task (b) is easy as nothing needs to be done except for decrementing the semaphore value.




To perform task (a) for every semaphore you declare you have to create a new queue semQ. Whenever a thread executed P(S) and S &lt;= 0 the TCB of the thread gets deleted from the ReadyQ and inserted at the <strong>end</strong> of the semQ. Then the process calls yield(). In this way if the thread remains in the semQ it never gets executed again.




V(S) requires two operations a) increment S and b) unblock <strong>one</strong> process. To unblock a process, you will deleted the <strong>head</strong> of semQ and add at the <strong>end</strong> of the ReadyQ. This way the processes can perform yield and the unblocked process will execute again.




<strong>Test cases</strong>

<strong> </strong>

Similar to project 1, we will test your code using input redirection. The first line of each test case file will be of the form:




B,P,C,N




Where B is the buffer size, P is the number of producers, C is the number of consumers, and N is the number of times producers and consumers run their while loop. (Note all producers and consumers run the same number of while loop).




This line will be followed by P+C numbers (one number in each line). Each number denotes process ID. Positive numbers indicate producer process ID, while negative numbers indicate consumer process ID.




Example test case

2,3,1,2

1

-1

2

3




Example test case output




For this particular test case we have buffer size 2, 3 producers and 1 consumer, and each producer or consumer executes their while loops 2 times.

We have two semaphores here: a) Full (for the Consumer) and b) Empty (for the Producer).




Initially the ready queue looks like the following




ReadyQ à 1 -1 2 3




Our Buffer is initially empty




The Full and Empty queues remain empty




The first producer produces an item and prints




<em>Producer 1 is producing item number 1</em>




After this print the producer yields so the new ready queue looks like the following




ReadyQ à -1 2 3 1




Buffer à <u>P1</u>  <u>__</u>




The first consumer then executes and prints




<em>Consumer 1 is consuming item generated by Producer 1</em>




The ready queue now looks like the following




ReadyQ à 2 3 1 -1




Buffer à __    __




The second producer then executes.




<em>Producer 2 is producing item number 1</em>




Then it yields




ReadyQ à 3 1 -1 2




Buffer à <u>P2</u>    <u>__</u>




Producer 3 then executes




<em>Producer 3 is producing item number 1</em>




ReadyQ à 1 -1 2 3




Buffer à <u>P2</u>  <u>P3</u>

Producer 1 then attempts to produce but the buffer is full so has to wait




<em>Producer 1 is waiting</em>




EmptyQ à P1




ReadyQ à -1 2 3




Consumer 1 then executes. It unblocks P1 from empty queue and hence P1 joins the end of the ready queue. It then prints:




<em>Consumer 1 is consuming item generated by Producer 2</em>




After printing it exits because it is done.




EmptyQ à empty




ReadyQ à 2 3 1




Buffer à <u>P3</u>  __




Process P2 executes




<em>Producer 2 is producing item number 2</em>

<em> </em>

Then producer 2 is done so it exits

ReadyQ à 3  1

Buffer à <u>P3</u>  <u>P2</u>

<u> </u>

Producer 3 then executes but is blocked because buffer is full




<em>Producer 3 is waiting</em>




EmptyQ à P3




ReadyQ à 1




Producer 1 then executes




Producer 1 is waiting




The Ready Q is empty so




The program ends




SO overall output is as follows
















Producer 1 is producing item number 1




Consumer 1 is consuming item generated by Producer 1




Producer 2 is producing item number 1




Producer 3 is producing item number 1




Producer 1 is waiting




Consumer 1 is consuming item generated by Producer 2




Producer 2 is producing item number 2




Producer 3 is waiting




Producer 1 is waiting








